hello welcome to the science of speaking
or is it the science of speaking in this
lesson we're going to look at the
importance of word stress for your IELTS
speaking test so in today's class we're
going to look at syllables
what are syllables we're going to
understand what word stress is we'll
look at common errors and we'll do some
practice at the end
okay so syllables what is a syllable
well words consist of syllables for
example look at this word here robot
there are two syllables ro but your
mouth makes two movements if you like
they're the syllables or the two sounds
of that word so a syllable is one sound
within the word words can have one two
three or more syllables depends on the
length of the word so let's do a little
activity I'm going to give you 30
seconds to count the syllables here
ready
you
okay let's take a look at the answers so
dog one syllable
robot two syllables fantastic three
syllables
halli copter four syllables personality
five syllables so it's important to
understand that they are syllables let's
see how they now apply to word stress
when you're actually speaking so to be
easily understood that's the name of the
game being easily understood you need to
stress the correct part of the word or
emphasize the correct part of the word
to stress a syllable you make it louder
higher longer weak syllables are softer
lower shorter okay so that is word
stress emphasizing a specific syllable
in the word now it's important to
understand that some languages do this
naturally in English it's a stress based
language system all right other
languages are syllable based languages
let's take a look at this
so English tired German Russian Danish
Swedish Norwegian Dutch European
languages Portuguese and persian/farsi
are stressed based languages that is
they're a bit like Morse code like did
like that other languages are syllable
based languages like French Italian
Spanish Icelandic Cantonese Mandarin
Turkish Koreans South Asian and
Dravidian a lot of Indian languages are
syllable based languages so you don't
you're not saying the words thinking
about the stress you're languages are
more like detective there's a more even
amount of stress on each syllable okay
so if you come from a syllable based
language you're going to find it quite
difficult or unusual when speaking
English and applying word stress
correctly so let's stress the correct
part of the word maybe you know how to
do this naturally or maybe this
is going to be the first time you've
ever thought about this anyway have a go
and then I'll show you the correct
answers
you
okay so which of these syllables within
the words are stressed now before we
look at those answers let me just try to
do it with even stress on each of the
syllables like robot or fantastic
fantastic fantastic helicopter
personality it's it's strange for me
because I come from an english-speaking
background so what I would do is place
emphasis on dog robot the emphasis on
the first syllable in robot fantastic
fantastic emphasis on the middle
syllable their task gets the emphasis
helicopter helicopter emphasis on the
first syllable the other syllables have
less emphasis personality she has a
great personality personality na na na
gets the emphasis there how do we know
which syllable to place emphasis on
that's a difficult question that's up to
you to start to listen to the way that
people speak English
and notice that which syllable is
emphasized okay let's look at some
common problems first common problem is
too much stress like robots robot
fantastic helicopter personality okay
too much stress too even you don't want
to do that next problem is stress in the
wrong place like robot Bill Gates
developed a new robot now what oh you
mean a robot not a robot
what about fantastic fantastic oh that's
fantastic
that sounds really weird what about
helicopter look there's a helicopter
that's around sounds strange as well
what about / solvent personality
personality personality is just wrong
even though I can sort of tell what that
word is it takes me a few seconds to go
what Oh personality okay let's do a
little exercise I want you to write down
the word that you hear number one
reward reward number two
gradually gradually number three
shaping shaping and before calimary
calimary number five money money okay so
what I was doing there was purposely
putting the stress on the wrong syllable
and maybe you found it difficult to
understand the word that I was saying so
let's take a look at the correct stress
here so here is the incorrect stress
like I was saying I was saying reward
but in fact the correct stress on the
syllable would be reward reward reward
this gets stressed and instead of
gradually that's wrong it's gradually
gradually this gets emphasized here
instead of shaking that sounds weird I
say shaping shaping shaping this gets
less emphasis here and calimary
what you're gonna order a column or a
salad at the restaurant no you're going
to order a calamari calamari sell it and
of course money money emphasis on that
first syllable there okay now let's
apply those understandings to some IELTS
speaking practice all right so I'm gonna
give you 30 seconds to read through this
paragraph and I want you to place the
correct stress on the right syllable in
the word okay here we go
you
okay so this would be incorrect words
dress well I definitely think creative e
creates that I just find it difficult to
do creativity no that was correct
creativity is an important quality for
young people and see I just can't even
make these mistakes because my brain is
so used to doing words dress correctly
okay so let's look at the correct words
dress here well I definitely think that
creativity is an important quality for
young people to develop children tend to
be imaginative anyway and so they're
usually interested in drawing and
experimenting with colors and paints
actually by doing those activities they
enhance their fine motor skills as well
as their creative talents cool that felt
much more natural for me let's do
another one you have 30 seconds to read
this aloud paying attention to correct
words dress
you
all right let's have a look at the
correct word stress here so from my
perspective I'd say that it's a
combination there's no question that
some people have an inherent natural
talent for art and it can manifest at a
very young age having said that the
majority of great artists also dedicated
their lives to studying and improving
their skills through intensive practice
correct word stress sounds good and you
should do this in your exam cool if
you're not yet a subscriber to this
wonderful YouTube channel you should
click that subscribe button now cool I
hope you found that helpful word stress
is really important especially for those
of you who come from a syllable based
language backgrounds it's going to be a
little bit strange for you you need to
start to pay attention when you're
listening to word stress and you
definitely need to start using it
especially in your exam if you made me
more help check out a two language comm
you can always join our live speaking
classes
[Music]